“Include a specific single aim for your project, as well as some smaller goals which will be helpful in achieving your aim.”
“One paragraph for the aim and one for each goal is expected. Each paragraph should include a description of the aim or goal, and a justification for its inclusion. “



-> Aims

We aim to build a smart assistant to help the elderly in their daily life. Differently from the current smart assistants available in the market, we aim to build our device with a clean design and with ease of use concepts meant to facilitate the user experience of an eldery person.
These two ideas ensure that we will reach our target audience and design a device that blends with any home decoration. 
Having this goal as our cornerstone will keep us on track during the development of our project.

In order to reach our main goal we currently predict 3 other goals that need to be achieved first.

The first goal is to run a market research of which similar devices are available in the market and what they offer. We will need to critically look into the user feedback for each device and understand what are the pros and cons. This will give us relevant information for our device and we can use that as a guide on how to improve weak features and improve features loved by the customers. The objective of this goal is to give us ideas of what is already available and how we can make it better and shape that into our Smart Mirror device.

Our second goal is to find a unique feature for our device. 
After studying the competion’s products and constructing a better idea of how a smart assistant can be helpful, we will gather our ideas and research features that help us answer the question “What is the feature that makes our device unique ?” and “What advantage is there, to the customer, to deliver it through a mirror?”. This is a very important goal for us and will give direction for all following works.

Finally, we reach a stage which challenges us to bring our idea to life. We are going to build our first product prototype. This is our third goal and it can be quite difficult to achieve because of its complex nature of finding the right parts and our lack of experience in developing software. For this reason, we decided to break it down in parts to make it more attainable and measurable .


						 					
				
			
		

