https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Asd3GWPYEXqg3bMB-m5Taq4npUM5l8YdSfZ-_zzlwgg/edit?usp=sharing

Overview

Using the latest technology available, we want to create a new trend in Smart Home technology by developing a Smart Mirror unique from the current voice assistant devices today. One of the key differences we are to implement in our project is the emphasis of many smaller Smart Mirrors within a home, where the main Smart Mirror is placed in the main room. We find that having a single voice assistant device in only one room has many limitations and we want to optimise Smart Home technology, enabling users to access their assistant no matter where they are in their home. This is especially important to us, as our target audience is simply,  those who live in a house. Furthermore, 

Within this group are the elderly and the disabled, and they should not be limited to receiving assistance in only one room of their house. We aim to make life easier for them in their own home, giving them some independence and control over tasks they couldn’t do themselves initially. We also want to use this technology to influence people to pursue a more productive lifestyle whilst bringing convenience to their lives. With the creation of our Smart Mirror, we hope to increase the use of Smart Home technology to benefit our lives and introduce a new way of living.

The technology around us is evolving and we want to take advantage of that rather than be consumed in it. Our motivation comes from a passion towards a smarter and better way of living, as well as a drive to assist those who need it most. We find that the elderly and disabled are usually excluded in the creation of new technology trends, so we aim to suit everyone’s needs. As humans, we are hardwired to be lazy. The idea of having a personal assistant intrigues us and allowing us to voice our commands takes personalisation and control to another level. Voice command assistants are implemented everywhere into our lives, such as in our Smartphones and Computers. In Entertainment, voice command assistants are perceived as ‘futuristic’ and ‘cool’. Showing this project to a potential employer would open a list of opportunities towards a new and better way of living, creating new trends in Smart Home technology and giving the elderly and disabled the assistance they need in their daily lives.

There are a plethora of systems and products that provide a similar service to our Smart Mirror. These are incorporated into smartphones, laptops, and other technology. Our competitors include Google Home with ‘OK Google’, Amazon Echo with ‘Alexa’, Apple with ‘Siri’ and Samsung with ‘Bixby’. Furthermore, Philips, Lenovo and LIFX would also be considered competitors as they have a Smart Home range. What makes our Smart Mirror different is the fact that we will implement a range of Smart Mirrors within our user’s homes, rather than having only one source of assistance. Additionally, our mirror is able to be concealed as a common household item, compared to a ‘bulky’ device that needs additional room and specific placement. Moreover, users will get a direct view of the features they command, rather than having to check their phones or only being able to listen to the device’s feedback. Having the ability to visualise the user’s wants and needs brings us ahead of the competition, allowing consumers to differentiate between our product from the rest.
