Our project idea is a Smart Mirror that is designed to assist the elderly and disabled to make their lives easier, whilst creating a smarter way to live for individuals seeking a tech savvy life. Additionally, the Smart Mirror serves its purpose as a cosmetic item, camouflaging as a common element displayed in every household. The Smart Mirror will include features that will allow our users to go about their daily lives with convenience and efficiency, simultaneously promoting productivity. Functions specialising in productivity include calendar, health analysis and news. For calendar and daily reminders, users can create personalised schedules to organise their days and events. On command, the Smart Mirror voices the users’ routine and informs them of daily tasks needed to be completed. In regard to health analysis, users have the ability to track their health (mental and physical), menstruation, fitness and sleep. Feedback will be given along with recommendations to improve their current state and they will be able to view their progress through charts. An extra feature that comes with this are words of encouragement and affirmations from the Smart Mirror, which users can utilise if they need extra motivation and drive. As for news, users can watch or read local news reports. Aside from productivity features, the Smart Mirror also functions as a Smart Home tool, where it offers music, security, temperature and lighting control. With the use of smart technology such as smart speakers, smart cameras/smart locks, smart bulbs and smart heating and cooling, users are able to set a command and control these facilities from any room in their household, whether it be by voice or mobile. This feature is especially useful for the eldery and disabled, so we have a focus on this to make it as accessible as possible. A special feature we have included is a smartwatch feature. The watch tracks the user’s heart rate and has the ability to understand their emotions and health. From this, the watch will ask permission to play music through the Smart Mirror based on mood. Another benefit from this is health tracking. In the event a user shows signs of emergency outside of their home, contacts will be alerted on their phone and all Smart Mirror’s in the user’s home will be alerted, displaying the user’s location for those at home to see. What makes our Smart Mirror rather unique in comparison to other smart devices such as the Google Home or Amazon Echo, is how it is able to blend in with common items in a house, allowing more space to be used. Furthermore, we aim to develop secondary Smart Mirrors to be located throughout a household for full user control. Another difference is the smartwatch feature which is completely unique to other smart assistants on the market.

There are programs and software available for Smart Mirror’s that function on a smaller scale, allowing individuals to create this project by themselves at home. However it is recommended to have a few people working on it as it could be time consuming for one individual. To complete the Smart Mirror project, the individuals will be required to have learned/understand Python, a programming language, used to program the Raspberry Pi B+ model that will allow the Smart Mirror to function accordingly. To build the Smart mirror, materials such as a Raspberry Pi B+ model (has built in Wi-Fi and bluetooth, HDMI compatible and 4 USB sockets), a two-way mirror (a mirror that is transparent of one side[glass] and a mirror on the other), monitor that contains a HDMI connector, HDMI cable (used to connect both the Raspberry Pi and the Monitor together to allow display behind the mirror) and materials to hang the mirror. Since the mirror is designed to be a small footprint that occupies less space to create the maximum benefit for the user, the Smart Mirror will hanged on the wall using a French Cleat which requires wood, circular saw to cut the wood at a 45 degrees angle and some screws and wood to bring it all together. An alternative that can be used to hang the mirror on the wall is hooks to hang the mirror if it is not too big nor too heavy.

The main goals that we would like to achieve is for our end users to enjoy using the product in order to achieve maximum efficiency for the elderly. One of our main goals is to create an understanding of which competitors in the market sell products that are similar to the Smart Mirror. By knowing who the competitors are in the market, it will help the project group create an understanding of who your competitors are, so they can figure out what their product offers in comparison to other competitor products in order to further improve what works for the competitors and use it in our own personal product. They can use this information to understand what makes this Smart Mirror unique compared to the competitors product and what can make this product stand out in the market. When the final design of the Smart Mirror is created, it will need to fulfill our main objective of blending in with the environment and helping to elderly by being more efficient with the use of time as time is limited.

Another goal for our product is to make it rather unique compared to other similar products. By taking this step of making it a “one-of-a-kind” good on the market, it distinguishes the item itself from other similar goods on the market. It ensures promotion of the product brand, as it is different in some way but contains some similar features of other goods. Additionally, the project needs to be created to assure that user groups would want to buy the unique product that is particularly different to comparable items. By considering this goal in mind during the Smart Mirror project, it will help construct ideas and pathways to be built upon the Smart mirror.

Furthermore, another objective that they would have to keep in the back of our minds is to physically bring the project to life. Firstly, we would have to build a prototype to give us a brief understanding on how the Smart Mirror will look and functions. We can then comprehend the users perspective of the product and how the mirror will work. As we build the prototype, we will require to spend time to learn how the software will  work, the Raspberry Pi B+ model. To overcome the problem, we will be required to learn Python, a programming language that we have not had any experience in, as we do not have much coding experience in comparison to what we would like to achieve. To help resolve as many issues as possible, we have decided for the prototype that we would split up the parts to allow it to be achievable and measurable.

The steps that will be taken will be small and completed slowly at the beginning to ensure that all the tasks are completed at the best of our ability. By completing our primary goals, creating a smart mirror that blends in with the environment at home with a clean design and to help the elderly user group. In the long run, by completing the small tasks will help achieve our primary goals and help us create more smaller goals to work with. 

 The current features we will implement to our project include: Calendar and reminders, Local or worldwide news, Local weather, Health/Fitness and sleep analysis, Music, Security control, smart watch compatibility and can be utilised through voice command or through an application on the phone. A unique feature of our smart mirror is that it will provide a brief summary or rundown of what is going to occur during the day such as meetings and work. 

One morning Ary woke up and began his morning routine to get ready for University. When in the bathroom he found himself creating a plan for the day in his head while looking at himself in the mirror brushing his teeth. He then returned to his bedroom where he changed into the clothes he would wear to RMIT that day. Before he left his bedroom, he looked at his outfit in the mirror and said to himself “I hope what I am wearing is appropriate for today’s weather.” He made his way into his kitchen where he ate breakfast and prepared a lunch to bring to RMIT. Before leaving his house, he made one more glance into the mirror right next to his front door. Ary then left the house and continued on his way to RMIT. About 2 and a half hours later when Ary was in a tutorial for his class, Introduction to Information Technology, Ary remembered that his partner had created a list of items that she would have liked for him to pick up form Woolworths on his way home from RMIT. Ary said to himself, “I always forget the list, every time!” At this very moment Ary decided that he wanted a smart assistant in his home to help assist him with basic tasks. After class, Ary returned home with no groceries, and went straight to the computer to research smart assistants. Upon doing his research on which smart assistant he wanted to purchase he found zero that were to his liking. The main problem being that they were all stand-alone, non-aesthetically pleasing devices. It was at this moment that Ary had the sudden urge to use the bathroom. As he walked into the bathroom, with still no smart assistant on order, and hungry because of not getting groceries he looked at the mirror and thought, “I will combine a mirror with a smart assistant.” This was the perfect idea because not only did it blend into a home, the mirror was also something most people use every day. He began to think about what if the mirror could display my schedule for the current day, and the predicted weather while I am choosing my outfit. The possibilities were endless and therefore the project was born, the Smart Mirror idea was created. Ary got 5 other colleagues to join the team and begin work on this project. At first progress was slow however he believes that with a few months of hard work we could have a serious product on our hands that could be implemented into millions or perhaps billions of households across the world.

The story of our Smart Mirror began with one of our group members wanting a smart mirror for personal use and decided on making the Smart Mirror even better. We then shared our own project ideas and had a discussion one which project ideas were interesting and we all decided that the Smart Mirror project was interesting to all of us so we decided that our group project was going to be the Smart Mirror. We got together as a group and discussed the features that we would like to implement to the Mirror in order to save time and create a cleaner look. Our group then decided how the mirror could be accessed, either through voice, mobile application or touch screen, to improve the effectiveness of the item. Additionally, we have brainstormed what brings motivation to create this project, special features and what will the outcome be if we bring our project to life. The plan of this project is to reach the stage where the Smart Mirror is built and programmed, where it can then be physically used in the household and impact the users daily life. If the stage couldn’t be reached, the bare minimum we would like it to reach is to get the final prototype to be completed and get feedback from the alpha and beta users to finalise what are some missing functions that users would like to be in the Smart Mirror to then be used in the final product if it occurs.

Some dead-ends that we have encountered during the process of our discussions was what makes our product unique compared to other similar products that are already in the market. When creating a prototype, another issue that we have to face is the skill to write Python, a programming language used to program the Raspberry Pi B+. To help resolve this problem, we decided that it was necessary to learn the Python language and in the long-term, we will have another skill in our pockets that we can use in the future. Another problem that we have encountered was how the user would interact with the mirror, either the user walks up to it or through voice recognition, which is required to understand how accessible the mirror is to the user. 

The project timeline is structured and planned which follows our timeframe, where each week is designated a few tasks to be completed and is updated with the group in the following meeting or week. In the first four weeks of the project, as a group, we discussed what went well in the plan of the Smart Mirror project,  what could be improved and be explained in more detail. We share our own experience in the areas on what the roles include, what would need to be done and each person's ideal roles to ensure that everyone in the group would be happy and will put as much effort into their section of roles. 

 Some confusing aspects of our Smart Mirror project are
