https://docs.google.com/document/d/1KD_AzmAq5Y9YKHOvW8uZ7kwQVfnNLdIVybPcRODYFYo/edit?usp=sharing

Project Description

Our group project is a two-way smart mirror designed for individuals who want extra assistance in their everyday life at home, whilst maximising the space in their house. Controlled via voice command or manually by mobile/smartwatch, this new technology is easily accessible by its users. The idea is to create a “main” mirror which preferably resides in the most frequented room, while smaller mirrors should be located in different rooms around the house, giving individuals complete control over their mirror no matter where they are and optimising the mirror’s use. 

The smart mirror includes many available features that we believe will bring convenience to our users. These features include:
Lighting control: Using a compatible smart bulb, users are able to control the lighting in any room.
Heating & cooling control: With a compatible heating or cooling system, this gives users the option to use the temperature control feature.
Security control: Smart locks and security cameras are accessible through the smart mirror and mobile device. Users can lock/unlock doors and view their security footage within the mirror. If the mirror believes there is suspicious activity, it will alert the user and the user can choose to call emergency services or ignore the alert.
Calendar & reminders: A calendar application allows users to set up a schedule, set reminders and add events, giving them a smarter personalised schedule. Since the mirror is synced with devices, reminders are also sent to their mobiles and smartwatches.
News: Local news reports can be viewed upon user command, which is displayed in text form or video.
Weather: The Smart Mirror will have an in-built local weather forecast that will also display warnings in case of emergencies such as floods, earthquakes and extreme weather.
Health/Fitness and Sleep analysis: Users can track their health, fitness and sleep on their personal device, which the smart mirror can access, then giving feedback and recommendations to assist in reaching goals and optimal health/fitness.
Music: The user is able to play music via their preferred music app and connect with smart speakers.
Smartwatch feature: A special feature included is a smartwatch feature. The smartwatch tracks the user's heart rate and is able to understand their emotions and health. From this, the watch will ask permission to play music on the Smart Mirror based on their mood. Another benefit is health tracking. If the user shows signs of emergency, it will alert emergency contacts on their mobile as well as alert the Smart Mirror, which will display the user’s location for other users at home to see.
There are a few smart mirrors that are currently out on the market, so the technology of smart mirrors is not new to the smart home industry. As of now there are beauty mirrors which specialise in skin analysis and makeup, DIY mirrors where individuals can make at home with software available online and other home smart mirrors which already exist. Our project aims to exceed the functionality of current existing smart mirrors to further benefit our users. What we can do now is reach out to an audience who benefit the most out of smart mirrors and try to appeal to their needs. As of now, smart mirrors are not seen as a necessity so we can use this time to further develop the technology of smart mirrors to be deemed as indispensable in the future. Progress is quite slow in the smart home industry so even in the next three years, there will most likely only be a small spike in popularity. However, if the population begins to realise the potential of smart mirrors, there's a possibility of growth. 
Technology is extremely advanced, enabling even regular individuals at home to create smart mirrors. What makes this possible is the software used. Without the software, smart mirrors would simply be mirrors. Software as simple as Raspberry Pi can run a smart mirror, though the functionality would be limited. To run a home based smart mirror to assist users in as many ways as possible, a more advanced software is needed. In regards to hardware, it is vaguely similar to computers. We would need a display screen, RAM, SSD and a motherboard. Furthermore, the use of speakers and microphones is required. 
The development of smart mirrors will increase the popularity of a smart home. Individuals may begin to invest in smarter technology, steering away from the traditional home and directing towards a futuristic home. Those who benefit the most out of this will be the elderly and the disabled, assisting them in doing tasks that might initially be extremely difficult for them. People are lazy by nature, so this would also appeal to the rest of the population. 

We believe that introducing smarter technology will create more jobs, as the development of smart lights, smart heating/cooling systems and smart security systems will be induced. There may also be the creation of smarter and better applications. Furthermore, there will be a need for advanced software and security, as well as hardware creation and design, due to the changing aesthetics of changing generations. There are plenty of opportunities for the growth and development of smart mirrors. This may also influence the creation of an artificially intelligent home. 
Although there will be a rise in smart home technology, this would not obliviate the traditional home. There are costs with smart technology, so businesses that create regular light bulbs, heating/cooling systems and security systems will still be intact. There will be a population of individuals who find smart mirrors as a luxury, so no jobs should be impacted on the creation of a smart mirror. 

An issue we may face is the concern of privacy and data. Personal data is important to users, especially whilst we live in a time where data is sold without user knowledge. Having a smart mirror at home may also cause them to feel a sense of invasion, impacting the growth and development of smart mirrors. We need to consider these factors and ensure that users feel in control, safe and secure

In the event of us ourselves owning smart mirrors, convenience will be taken to the next level at home. We love the idea of seeing our schedules, the weather, news and health/sleep analysis in any mirror we face. This eliminates forgetting plans and allows us to become more organised in our lives. This could change our daily routines and influence a more productive lifestyle. Furthermore, using voice commands to control the lights and temperature in our homes makes us feel like we’re living in the future. With the security feature, we will feel safer. Music control is an entertainment bonus. Owning this technology could influence our family and friends to implement smart mirrors in their own homes, which will further influence their family and friends. This chain will create a community of homes owning smart mirrors, allowing us to reach a tech savvy future.



