https://docs.google.com/document/d/16-u2HmzYUcnxAsM1mfbycPrA8GnxSCFBfN6zyOBtXn4/edit?usp=sharing

Scopes and Limits:
With a time frame limited to 14 weeks, there is only so much our team can complete. Our Smart Mirror carries an extensive list of special features that require far more time to work on. There is a considerable amount of learning to do, skills to pick up and experts to connect with in order to satisfy the needs of our project. For our Smart Mirror to possess the functions we hope to achieve, we need to make our goals realistic and aim to accomplish as much as our abilities can offer during these 14 weeks. To ensure that we are able to maximise most of the time available, we are only able to demonstrate a simple version of our products’ features. Although this is the case, this does not mean that we neglect the complex features of our Smart Mirror. These unique traits are beyond what our team can accomplish, and they need further research and professional expertise to be achieved.

During this time, we are only able to demonstrate the regular aspects of Smart Home living using Smart Home technology. This involves smart lights, smart audio systems, smart heating/cooling systems and smart security cameras/locks. These facilities will be accessible for the user to test via voice command or manually through their mobile, however, there will be no final interface readily available for the display on the actual mirror. The reason being, the team is not large enough to involve a user design and user experience team. We are only able to display a rough sketch of what the user might be able to see when making these commands in front of a mirror. We are also able to incorporate a calendar and scheduling tool, as this is an achievable feature that lies within our level of expertise. Though again, the interface and design relies on a design team so we can only display a rough idea of the calendar GUI. Another element that will not be a part of the project deliverables is the health/sleep analysis. There is a lot of research involved in this feature, which includes fields in medicine, health and fitness, nutrition and psychology. We have little to no knowledge in these areas,, so it would be unwise to attempt in making this feature function. For our prototype and user testing, we will create a ‘dummy’ health and sleep analysis interface which will display a personas sample analysis. In regards to the news feature, we will also be leaving this out for now as we need to work on video display and casting news in real time. Lastly, we will not be able to demonstrate full use of our special smartwatch feature. Further testing is required for this part of the project and we hope to perfect it due to its uniqueness. We also need to test with different smartwatches and consider the compatibility. Though we are limited by our skill sets and time, we hope the simple version of our Smart Mirror will still be able to accomplish most of our goals.
