https://docs.google.com/document/d/1X-_ij9YJuQW6XQ-OfrNr-dohrC3kE7Voyt54xwJ7Xms/edit?usp=sharing

Team Name: Team PAHDMA

Personal Information

Ary Ramires - s3857679
I came from Brazil 6 years ago and I was supposed to stay only for a year to become fluent in English. After my first months, I had grown to love this country and decided I wanted to stay. My past work experience is in the area of customer and property services. Working as an operational supervisor, I was in charge of managing staff and overseeing commercial cleaning operations. 
Some of my hobbies include endurance road cycling, going on a hike with friends and I enjoy going to film festivals in Melbourne. My IT experience is limited to my years of high school when I took a course to learn how to create and code soccer playing robots. That was very fun and rewarding and has motivated me to pursue a career in IT. Also, I am attracted to how technologies are constantly developing and particularly to how those changes can impact business and people. 
Working on a variety of teams and projects during my career is something I am definitely looking forward to.

Melanie Lok - s3722982
I was born in Australia, but my ethnicity is half Cambodian and half Chinese. My hobbies include, hiking, bouldering and any sort of outdoor activity that involves a kick of adrenaline. After graduating from High School, I took a gap year then proceeded to do half a semester in an Associate’s Degree of Science. I didn't enjoy it much, so I stopped the course in the second semester to apply for a Bachelor’s Degree in Information Technology. My main interest in IT is in programming. Although it is frustrating at times and can be very difficult, the end result is satisfying. Having your code run successfully gives a sense of accomplishment, which makes it so enjoyable. Before starting a Bachelor’s Degree in IT, I had very little IT experience, however, my knowledge is growing and I hope to gain more experience.

Derek Jiang - s3844786
I was born in Australia, while both my parents came from China. I can speak and understand both Chinese and English. I enjoy playing sports especially basketball where I played for a club (Central City Breakers) and swimming when I took lessons. I am in the Bachelor of Information Technology Course where I have a major interest in the data science area of IT. I have little knowledge in the IT field however I hope to learn it in more detail as IT is always evolving and achieving new heights.


Patrick Armstrong - s377306
I am 19 years old and I am a Full-Time international student originally from the United States. I am a first year student in the Bachelor of IT program. I fly drones in my spare time, as well I am an amteur boxer. I speak English as my primary language however I am moderately proficient in Spanish. My interest comes from wanting to know how everything works, I extend that curiosity to computers. The feeling you receive after successfully completing something you’ve been working on for weeks keeps me going. It’s the pinnacle of all the hours of work you put in and now it is represented all in one area.

Angel He - s3845798
I am an 19 year old boy from mainland China. My family immigrated from China to Melbourne in 2014, and since then I started High School here. My parents both can speak fluent Spanish because they used to work in a South American country called Argentina, but unfortunately, I never had a chance to learn Spanish with them because they are always busy with their work. My interest in IT is network security, although I only have little knowledge about it but I would really like to learn more about it.

Hien Tran - s3783447
Hello. Australia is where I was born and my ethnicity is Vietnamese. I grew up playing a lot of video games and the technology always seemed to be fascinating to me. My IT interests are networks and security and data science as these areas have a lot of applications in this day and age of fast-growing technology.

Group Progress
The nature of each individual team member is kind, driven and reliable. This enabled us to work on the assignment with efficiency and we were able to collaborate extremely well together. There was never a moment of conflict and the communication between each member was clear and concise. Our discussions were always respectful and ideas were able to flow freely without dispute, which actually made decisions hard to settle because we were so open to different proposals and we didn’t want to object to any new ideas. 
When allocated tasks, each member was successful in completing them. If a task was incomplete, there would always be a mutual understanding and usually, their part would be done later, exceeding our expectations. 
In regards to change, we may frequent checking Microsoft Teams as that is our main source of communication. Some messages are easy to miss, holding back the communication. Otherwise, everything else about our group's dynamic is great.



Career Plans
Each group member has a different career goal in mind. Ary is interested in software engineering, Melanie and Derek would like to pursue data science or data and business intelligence analysis, Patrick would like to work in the cybersecurity field while Angel would like to join network security and Hien has a passion for graphic database development. Though different careers, there are also some similarities.
One of the common job interests are data science and data/business intelligence analysis, where some of the shared skills include data modelling, knowledge in programming languages, problem solving, creating/analyzing data, expressing data and having a decent knowledge in the mathematical field. Another common job interest amongst our team is cybersecurity and network security, where the skills are in risk analysis and mitigation, intrusion detection, security analysis, programming languages and malware analysis and reversing. Although software engineering is of a different field from these careers, there are similar skills needed such as programming languages and problem solving. For graphic database development, the skills here are focused on organising and manipulating data into an appealing map. A required skill that is shared amongst everyone is teamwork, strong communication, conflict resolution, decision making, problem solving, reliability and respectfulness. 
In software engineering, the focus is on applying concepts of engineering to develop software, which is different from data science and analysis, where they aid businesses to enhance company products through analysing data. There is also a contrast when compared to security, where the attention is on security and data loss prevention with aspects of problem solving. A field that greatly contrasts with these careers is graphic database development, where the idea is to map data into a coherent and visually appealing design. Although each member has a different role of interest, we share a common goal that is to succeed in our careers.
In regards to career plans, the team has many similarities. Our first aim is to complete our Bachelor’s Degree in Information Technology. Using our learned knowledge, we hope to get internships to build our I.T skills along with our people skills to begin networking and creating connections with those in the I.T industry. As we make our way up and create a career for ourselves, we hope to learn more practical skills and further our careers.

